the following content is provided under
a Creative Commons license your support
will help MIT open courseware continue
to offer highquality educational
resources for free to make a donation or
view additional materials from hundreds
of MIT courses visit mitop courseware at
ocw.mit.edu all right let's get
started we return today to Graph Search
last time we saw Brett first search
today we're going to do depth first
search it's a simple algorithm but you
can do lots of cool things with it and
that's what I'll spend most of today on
in particular telling whether your graph
has a cycle and something called
topological
sort as usual basically in all graph
algorithms in this class the input the
way the graph is specified is as an
adjacency list or I guess adjacency
lists plural you have a bunch of lists
each one says for each vertex what are
the vertices I'm connected to what are
the vertices I can get to in One Step
viaa an edge so that's our input and our
goal in general with Graph Search is to
explore the graph uh in particular the
kind of exploration we're going to be
doing today is to visit all the vertices
in some order and visit each vertex only
once so the way we did breath first
search breath first search was really
good it explored things layer by layer
and that was nice because it gave us
shortest paths it gave us the fastest
way to get to everywhere but from a
particular source vertex s but if you
can't get from s to your vertex then the
shortest the shortest way to get there
is infinity there's no there's no way to
get there and BFS is good for detecting
that it can tell you which vertices have
are unreachable from
s DFS can do that as well but uh it's
often used to explore the whole graph
not just the part reachable from s and
so we're going to see how to do that
today this trick could be used for BFS
or for DFS we're going to do it here for
DFS because that's more common let's
say
so
DFS so depth first search is kind of
like how you solve a maze like uh the
other weekend I was at Big corn maze in
uh central Massachusetts
and uh it's easy to get lost in there uh
in particular because I didn't bring any
breadcrumbs the proper way to solve a
maze if you're in there and all you can
do is see which way to go next and then
walk a little bit to the next Junction
and then you have to keep making
decisions unless you have a really good
memory which I do not uh teaching staff
can attest to that um then an easy way
to do is to leave breadcrumbs behind say
this is the last way I went from this
node so I when I reach reach a dead end
I have to turn around and backtrack I
reach a breadcrumb that says oh last
time you went this way next time you
should go this way and in particular to
keep track at each node which of the
edges have I visited which ones are
still left to
visit and this could be done very easily
on a computer using recursion
so a high level description is we're
going to just
recursively explore the graph
backtracking as necessary kind of like
how you solve a
maze
uh
yeah in fact when I
was seven years old one of the first
computer programs I wrote was for
solving a maze I didn't know it was de
for search at the time but now I
know know
better it so much harder doing
algorithms when I didn't know what they
were anyway
um I'm GNA write some code for depth for
search it is super simple
code probably the simp the simplest
graph algorithm
it's four lines
that's it I'm going to write a little
bit of code after this but uh this is
basic depth for search this will visit
all the vertices reachable from a given
Source vertex s so we're given the
adjacency list I don't know why I put V
here you could erase it it's not
necessary uh and all we do is we have
our vertex
V sorry we have our vertex
s we look at all of the outgoing edges
from
s for each one call it
V we uh check have I visited this vertex
already so the one careful place where
we need to be careful is to not repeat
vertices we had to do this in BFS as
well so uh the way we're going to do
that is by setting the parent of a node
we'll see what that actually means later
uh but for now it's just are you in the
parent structure or not this is
initially uh we've seen s so we give it
a parent of nothing but it exists in
this dictionary uh if it's if the vertex
V that we're looking at is not in our
dictionary we haven't seen it yet uh we
mark it as seen by setting its parent to
S and then we recursively visit it
that's it super simple just recurse the
sort of the magical part is the
preventing yourself from
repeating as you explore the graph uh if
you reach something you've already seen
before you just skip it again so you
only re visit every vertex once at most
once this will not visit the entire
graph it'll only visit the vertices
reachable from
s the next part of the code I'd like to
give you is uh for visiting all the
vertices and in the textbook this is
called DFS whereas this is just called
DFS visit it that's sort of the
recursive part and this is sort of a top
level
algorithm here we are going to use the
set of vertices
B and here we're just going to iterate
over the S's
so it looks almost the same uh but what
we're iterating over is different here
we're iterating over the outgoing edges
from s here we're iterating over the
choices of s
and
uh so the idea here is we don't really
know where to start our search if it's a
disconnected graph or not a strongly
connected graph we might have to start
our search multiple
times this DFS algorithm is finding all
the possible places you might start the
search and trying them all so it's like
okay let's try the first vertex if that
hasn't been visited which initially
nothing's been visited then uh visit it
recursively everything reachable from s
then you go on to the second vertex now
you may have already visited it then you
skip it third vertex maybe you visited
it already third ver fourth vertex keep
going till you find some vertex you
haven't visited at all and then you
recursively visit everything reachable
from
it okay and you
repeat this will find all the different
clusters all the different strongly
connected components of your graph most
of the work is being done by this
recursion but then there's this top
level just to make sure that all the
vertices get
visited let's do a little
example so this is super clear and then
it will also let me uh do something
called Edge
classification once we
see every Edge in the graph gets visited
by DFS in one way or another and it's
really helpful to think about the
different ways they can be
visited
so here's a
graph I think it's similar to one from
last class
good it's not strongly connected I don't
think no you can't get from these
vertices to
C you can get from C to everywhere it
looks like but not strongly connected
and we're going to run DFS and I think
basically an alphabetical
order uh is how we're imagining these
vertices have to be ordered somehow we
don't really care how but for sake of
example I care uh so we're going to
start with a that's our F the first
vertex in here we're going to
recursively visit everything reachable
from a so we enter here with s equals a
so I'll mark this uh S1 to be the first
value of s at at this
level uh so we consider I got to check
the order here first Edge we look at
there's two outgoing edges let's say we
look at this one
first
uh we look at B B has not been visited
yet has no parent pointer so this one
has a parent pointer of
null uh B we're going to give a parent
pointer of a that's here then we
recursively visit everything from B so
we look at all the outgoing edges from B
there's only one so we visit this
Edge great uh from B to e e has not been
visited so we set its parent pointer to
B uh and now we recursively visit e e
has only one outgoing Edge so we look at
it over here to
d uh D has not been visited so we set
parent pointer to E and we look at all
the outgoing edges from d d has one
outgoing Edge which is to b b has
already been visited so we ski that one
nothing to do that's the the else case
of this if we do nothing in the else
case we just go to the next Edge but
there's no next Edge for D so we're done
so this algorithm returns to the next
level up next level up was e we were
itating over the outgoing edges from e
but there was only one so we're done so
e finishes
then we go back we backtrack to
B uh which is always going back along
the parent pointer but it's also just in
the recursion we know where to go back
to we were going over the outgoing edges
from B there was only one we're
done uh so we go back to a we only
looked at one outgoing Edge from a
there's another outgoing Edge which is
this
one uh but we've already visited D so we
skip over that one too so we're done
recursively visiting everything
reachable from a
uh now we go back to this Loop the outer
loop so we did a next we look at B I say
oh B's been visited we don't need to do
anything from there then we go to C C
hasn't been visited so we're going to
loop from C and so this is our second
choice of s in this recursion or in this
Outer
Loop and so we look at the outgoing
edges from uh from S2 let me match the
order and the notes uh let's say first
we go to
f f has not been visited so we set its
parent pointer to C uh then we look at
all the outgoing edges from F there's
one outgoing Edge from f it goes to F uh
I guess I shouldn't really bold this
sorry I'll say what the Bold edges mean
in a
moment this is just a regular Edge we
follow the Edge from F to F we see oh F
has already been VIs visit it it already
has a parent pointer so there's no point
going down there we're done with f
that's the only outgoing Edge we go back
to see there's one other outgoing Edge
but it leads to a Vertex we've already
visited namely e and so we're done with
visiting everything reachable from C we
didn't visit everything reachable from C
because some of it was already visited
from a and we go back to the outer loop
say okay what about D D's been visited
what about e e's been visited what about
F F's been visited so we're visiting
these vertices again but only be twice
in
total uh and in the end we visit all the
vertices and in a certain sense all the
edges as
well uh let's talk
about running
time what do you think the running time
of this algorithm
is anyone time to wake
up upper bound sure
v v is a little bit
optimistic yeah plus e good
collaborative
effort it's linear time just just like
the fs this is what we call linear
time
because this is the size of the input V
it's it's Theta V plus e for the whole
thing um the size of the input was V
plus e we needed V slots in an array
plus we needed e items in these link
lists one for each Edge we have to
Traverse that whole structure the reason
it's order V plus e is well first as
you're saying you're visiting every
vertex once in this outer Loop so
uh not thinking not worrying about the
recursion uh and DFS
alone so that's order V then we do we
have to worry about this recursion but
we know that whenever we call DFS visit
on on a Vertex that it did not have a
parent before right right before we
called DFS visit we said it's parent for
the first time right before we called
DFS visit on V here we said it's parent
for the first time because it wasn't set
before so uh DFS
visit I'm going to just write of V
meaning the the last argument
here it's
called Uh one
at most once per vertex
V okay but it does not take constant
time this takes constant time per vertex
plus a recursive call this thing uh this
takes constant time but there's a for
Loop here we have to pay for however
many outgoing edges there are from V
that's the part you're missing um
so and we
pay length of
adjacency V For That
vertex so the total in addition to this
V is going to be uh order sum overall
vertices V in capital V of length of the
adjacency list for V which
is
e this is the handshaking Lemma from
last time it's twice e for undirected
graphs it's e for directed graphs
I've drawn directed graphs here it's a
little more
interesting okay so it's linear time
just like BFS so you could say who cares
uh but DFS offers a lot of different
properties than BFS they each have their
Niche BFS is great for shortest paths
you want to know the fastest way to
solve the rubrics cube BFS will find it
you want to find the fastest way to
solve the rubrics cube DFS will not find
it it's not following shortest paths
here like going from a to d we used a
path of length three that's the Bold
edges we could have gone directly from a
to d so it's a different kind of search
sort of the inverse but it's extremely
useful um in particular in the way that
it classifies
edges so let me talk about Edge
classification you can check every Edge
in this graph gets visited in a directed
graph every Edge gets visited once in an
undirected graph every Edge gets visited
twice once from each
side um and when you visit that edge
there's sort of different categories of
what could happen to it uh maybe the
edge led to something unvisited then you
went there we call those tree edges
and that's what the parent pointers are
specifying and all the Bold edges here
are called tree edges this is when we uh
visit a new
vertex uh via that edge
okay so we look at the other side of the
edge we discover a new vertex those we
call tree edges it turns out they form a
tree a directed tree that's a Lama you
can prove you can see it here we just
have a path actually a forest would be
more accurate we have a path a b e d and
we have an edge CF but in general it's a
it's a forest so for example if there
was another thing coming from E here let
modify my graph uh we would at some
point visit that edge and say oh here's
new way to go and now that bold
structure forms an actual
tree so these we call tree edges you can
call them Forest edges if you feel like
it um there are other edges in there the
non-bold edges and the textbook
distinguishes three types three types
three types so many
types they are forward edges
uh backward
edges and cross
edges some of these are more useful to
distinguish than others but doesn't hurt
to have them all so uh for example this
Edge I'm going to call a forward Edge
just write f that's
unambiguous uh because it goes in some
sense forward along the tree it goes
from the root of this tree to a
descendant there is a a path in the tree
from a to d so we call it a forward Edge
by contrast this Edge I'm going to call
a backward
Edge uh because it goes from a node in
the tree to an ancestor in the tree if
you think of parents I can go from D to
parent to its parent and that's where
the edge goes so that's a backward Edge
double check I got these not reversed y
That's Right forward Edge uh because I
could go from D to its parent to its
parent to its parent The Edge went the
other way that's a forward
Edge okay so uh forward Edge goes from a
node to a descendant in the
tree backward Edge goes from a node to
an ancestor in the tree
and when I say tree I mean
forest and then all the other edges are
cross
edges uh so I guess here this is a cross
Edge it goes in this case it goes from
One Tree to another doesn't have to go
between different trees for
example let's say I'm visiting D and I I
go back to E I visit G uh there could be
this Edge if this Edge existed it would
be a cross
Edge because G and D are not ancestor
related neither one is an ancestor of
the other they are siblings
actually okay so there's in general
there's going to be some sube over here
some sub tree over here and this is a
cross Edge between two different sub
trees so cross Edge is between
to uh sort
of non ancestor related I think it's the
shortest way to write
this uh sub trees or
nodes
okay
um a little puzzle for you well okay I
guess first question is how do you
compute this structure how do you
compute which edges are which um this is
not hard although I haven't written it
in the code here you can check the
textbook for one way to do it uh the
parent structure tells you which edges
are tree edges so that part we have done
every every parent pointer corresponds
to the reverse of a tree Edge so you at
the same time you could Mark that edge a
tree Edge and You' know which edges are
tree edges and which edges are non- tree
edges if you want to know which are
forward which are backward which are
cross edges the key thing you need to
know is
uh well in particular for backward
edges one way to compute them is to Mark
which nodes you are currently
exploring so when we do a DFS visit on a
node we could say at the beginning here
basically we're starting to visit s so
say start S and then at the end of this
for Loop we write we're finished with
s and you could Mark that in the S
structure you could say s do in process
is true up here s do inprocess equals
false down here keep track of which
nodes are currently in the recursion
stack just by marking them and unmarking
them at the beginning and the end then
we'll know if we follow an edge and it's
an edge to somebody who's already in the
stack then uh it's a backward Edge
because that's everyone in the stack is
an ancestor from our current
node detecting forward
edges it's a little
trickier forward edges versus cross
edges any suggestions on an easy way to
do
that I don't think think I know an easy
way to do
that can be done uh the way the textbook
does it is a little bit more
sophisticated in that when they start
start visiting a Vertex they record the
time that it got visited what's time uh
you could think of it as the clock on
your computer uh another way to do it is
every time you do a step in this
algorithm you increment a counter so
every time anything happens you
increment a counter and then you store
the value of that counter here for s
that would be the start time for S you
store the finish time for S down here
and then this gives you this tells you
when a node was visited and you can use
that to compute when an edge is a
forward Edge when and otherwise it's a
cross Edge it's not terribly exciting
though so I'm not going to detail that
you can look at the
textbook if you're interested but here's
a fun puzzle uh in an undirected
graph which of these
edges can
exist we can have a
vote do some U mathematic de Democratic
mathematics how many people think tree
edges exist in undirected
graphs a few okay s does that's a good
sign how many people think forward edges
exist in an undirected
graph couple how many people think
backward edges exist in an undirected
graph
couple how many people think cross edges
exist in an undirected graph more people
okay I think voting worked they're all
exist no that's not
true this one can exist and this one can
exist I actually wrote the wrong ones in
my notes so it's good to trick you no
it's I made a mistake it's very easy to
get these mixed up and uh you can think
about why this is true maybe I'll draw
some pictures to clarify
this is something uh you remember
the well yeah there was the BFS diagram
I talked a little bit about this last
class uh tree edges better exist those
are the things you use to visit New
vertices so that always happens
undirected or otherwise forward edges
though forward Edge would be okay I
visited this then I visited this those
were tree
edges then I backtrack and I follow an
edge like this this would be a forward
Edge and in a directed graph that can
happen uh in an undirected
graph that can also
happen right oh no it can't it can't
okay so confusing undirected graph if
you look like this you start let's say
this is s you start here and suppose we
follow this Edge we get to here then we
will follow this Edge in the other
direction be and that's guaranteed to
finish before we get back to S so if
this was in order to be a forward Edge
this one has to be visited after this
one from s but in this scenario if you
follow this one first you'll eventually
get to this vertex and then you will
come back and then that will be
classified as a backward Edge in an
undirected graph so you can never have
forward edges in an undirected
graph uh
H but I have a backward edge here that
would suggest I can have backward edges
here and no cross edges well democracy
did not work I was swayed by the popular
vote uh so I claim apparently cross
edges do not exist let's try to draw
this so cross
Edge typical scenario would be you go
here uh you follow this Edge uh you come
you backtrack you follow another Edge
and then you discover there was an edge
back to some other subtree that you've
already visited that can happen in an
undirected graph the same reason if I
follow this one
first and this Edge exists undirected
then I will go down that way so it will
be actually a tree Edge not a cross
Edge okay that means my notes were
correct no surprise because they were
cop from the
textbook all right un uncorrect my
correction all right
good so
what uh why do I care about these Edge
classifications I claim they're super
handy for two
problems cycle detection and which is
pretty intuitive problem does My Graph
have any Cycles in the directed case
this is pretty particular particularly
interesting I want to know does the
graph has any directed cycles and
another problem called topological sort
which we will get
to so let's start with cycle
detection this is actually a warmup for
topological
sort so does my graph have any Cycles
G has a
cycle I claim this happens if and only
if G has a back
Edge or let's say a depth for search of
that graph has a back
Edge so it doesn't matter where I start
from or you know how this algorithm I
run this top level DFS algorithm explore
the whole graph because I want to know
in the whole graph is there a cycle I
claim if there's a back Edge then
there's a
cycle
cool so it all comes down to back edges
this will work for both directed and
undirected graphs detecting Cycles is
pretty easy in undirected graphs it's a
little more subtle with directed graphs
because you have to worry about the edge
directions so let's prove
this we haven't done the serious proof
in a while so this is still a pretty
easy one but let's think about it what
do you think is the EAS direction to
prove here left or
right more democracy how many people
think left is
easy couple how many people think right
is easy a whole bunch more I disagree
with you I mean guess depends what you
consider easy um let me show you how
easy left is okay left is I have a back
Edge I want to claim there's a cycle
what does a back Edge look like well
it's an
edge to an ancestor in the tree if this
node is a descendant of this node or
this node is an ancestor of this node um
that's saying that there are tree
edges there's a path a tree path that
connects one to the
other okay so this is a these are tree
edges because this is supposed to be an
ancestor and this is supposed to be a
descendant and this is that's the
definition of a back
Edge okay do you see a
cycle I see a cycle this is a
cycle directed cycle so if there's a
back Edge by definition it makes a cycle
now it's harder to say you know if I
have 10 back edges how many cycles are
there could be many but if there's a
back Edge there's definitely at least
one
cycle the other direction is also not
too hard but I would hesitate to call it
easy any suggestions if I know there is
a
cycle how do I prove that there's a back
Edge
somewhere think about that let me draw a
cycle
here's a length K
cycle where do you think which of these
edges do you think is going to be a back
Edge let's hope it's one of these
edges
sorry VK to V Zer that's a good idea
maybe this is a back Edge uh of course
this is symmetric why why that
edge I labeled it in a suggested way but
I need to say something before I know
actually which Edge is going to be the
back Edge yeah have to say started start
at v0 if I started a search at v0 that
looks good because the search is kind of
going to go in this direction VK will
maybe be the last thing to be visited
that's not actually true could be
there's an edge directly from v0 to VK
but intuitively VK will be kind of later
and then when this Edge gets visited
this will be an ancestor it'll be a back
Edge okay of course this we may not
start a search
here so calling it the start of the
search is not quite right a little
different
yeah first vertex that gets hit good so
let's I'm going to start the numbering B
0 so
assume b0
is the first vertex in the
cycle uh visited by the depth for
search together you want some pillows if
You' like
them uh especially convenient that
they're in front um so right if it's not
v0 say V3 was the first one visited
we'll just change the labeling so that's
v0 that's V1 that's V and so on um so
set this labeling so the V 0 is the
first one first vertex that gets
visited okay then I
claim that let me just write the claim
first this Edge vkv 0 will be a back
Edge as we say is back Edge yeah I would
say this is not obvious be a little
careful we have to somehow exploit the
depth first nature of DFS fact it goes
deep it goes as deep as it can before
backtracking if you think about it we're
starting at this point we are starting a
search relative to the cycle no one has
been visited except v0 just got visited
has a parent pointer off somewhere
else
okay uh what do we do next well we visit
all the outgoing edges from v0 there
might be many of them could be an edge
from v0 to V1 could be an edge from v0
to V3 could be an edge from v0 to
something else
uh we don't know which one's going to
happen
first but the one thing I could
claim is that uh
V1 will be
visited
before we finish visiting
v0 okay from v0 we might go somewhere
else we might go somewhere else that
might eventually lead to V1 by some
other route but in particular we look at
that edge from v0 to
V1 and so at some point during we're
searching we're visiting all the things
reachable from v0 that includes
V1 and that will happen we will touch V1
for the first time because it hasn't
been touched yet we will visit it before
we finish visiting
v0 same goes actually for all the vi
because they're all reachable from V 0
you can prove this by induction you have
to visit V1 before finish visiting v0 uh
you'll have to visit V2 before you
finish visiting V1 although you might
actually visit V2 before V1 you
definitely finish you'll finish V2
before you finish V1 and so on uh so
VI will be visited before you finish VI
minus one but in particular what we care
about is that VK is
visited
before we finish
v0 and it will be entirely visited we
will finish visiting VK before we finish
visiting v0 we will start VK after we
start v0 because v0 is first so the
order is going to look like start
v0 at some point we will start
VK then we'll finish
VK then we'll finish v0
this is something that textbook likes to
call uh and I like to call balance
parentheses you can think of it as we
start V Zer uh then we start VK then we
finish VK then we finish v0 and these
match up and they're
balanced it will dep for search always
looks like that because once you start a
Vertex you keep chugging till you
visited all the things reachable from it
then you finish it you won't finish v0
before you finish VK because it's part
of the
recursion you can't return at a higher
level before you return at the lower
levels okay so what we've just argued
that the order is like this because v0
was first so V K starts after V 0 and
also we're going to finish VK before we
finish v0 because it's reachable and
hasn't been visited
before so in here we
consider uh
VK v0
when we consider that edge it will be a
back
Edge why because v0 is currently on the
recursion stack and so you will have
marked v0 is currently in process so
when you look at that edge you see it's
a back Edge it's an edge to your
ancestor that's the
proof any questions about
that it's pretty easy Once you set up
uh starting point which is look at the
first time you visit the cycle then just
think about how you walk around the
cycle there lots of ways you might walk
around the cycle but it's guaranteed
you'll visit VK at some point then
you'll look at the edge v0 is still in
the stack so it's a back Edge and so
this proves that having a cycle is
equivalent to having a back Edge this
gives you an easy linear time algorithm
to tell does My Graph have a cycle and
if it does it's actually easy to find
one because we find a back Edge just
follow the tree edges and you get your
cycle
so if someone gives you a graph and say
hey I think this is a cyclic you can
very quickly say nope it's not here's a
cycle or say yeah I agree no back edges
I only have tree forward and cross
edges okay that was application
one application two is topological sort
which we're going to think about in the
setting of a problem called job
scheduling so job scheduling we are
given a
directed a cyclic
graph I want to order the vertices
uh so
that all edges
point
from lower order to higher
order okay directed ay graph is called a
dag should know that from 042
and maybe I'll draw one for
kicks big graph
okay I've drawn I've drawn the graph so
all the edges go left to right so you
can see that there's no Cycles here but
in general you'd run DFS and you detect
there's no
cycles and now imagine these vertices
represent things you need to
do uh the textbook has a funny example
where you're getting dressed so you have
these constraints to say well I've got
to put my socks on before I put my shoes
on and then I've got to put my underwear
on before I put my pants on all these
kinds of things things uh you encode
that as a direct today cyc graph you
hope there's no Cycles because then you
can't get
dressed and there's some things like
well I could put my glasses on whenever
although actually I should put my
glasses on before I do anything else
otherwise there's problems um I don't
know you put your watch on at any time
unless you need to know what time it is
so there's some some disconnected Parts
whatever there's some unrelated things
like I don't care the order between my
shirt and my pants or whatever um some
things are un constrained what you'd
like to do is choose an actual order to
do things you say you're a sequential
being you can only do one thing at a
time so I want to compute a total order
first I'll do G then I'll do a then I'll
then I can do H because I've done both
of the the predecessors then I can't do
B because I haven't done D so maybe I'll
do D first and then B then e then C then
F then I that would be a valid order
because all edges point from an earlier
number to a later number so that's the
goal and this is these are real job
scheduling problems that come up you'll
see more applications in your problem
Set uh how do we do
this well at this point we have two
algorithms and I pretty much revealed it
is DFS DFS will do this topological sort
is what this algorithm is usually
called topological sort because you're
given a graph which you can think of as
a topology you want to sort it in a
certain sense not like sorting numbers
it's sorting vertices in a graph so
hence topological sort that's the name
of the algorithm and it's run run
DFS and
output the
reverse of finishing
times of
vertices so this is another application
where you really want to visit all the
vertices in the graph so we use both we
use this top level DFS so everybody gets
visited and there are these finishing
times so every time I finish a Vertex I
could add it to a list say okay that one
was finished next then this one's
finished then this one's finished I take
that order and I reverse it that will be
a topological
order why who knows let's prove it
we've actually done pretty much the hard
work which is to say we're assuming our
graph has no Cycles so that tells us uh
by this cycle detection that there are
no back edges back edges are kind of the
annoying part now they don't exist here
so all the edges are tree edges forward
edges and cross edges
and
uh use that to prove the
theorem so we want to prove that all the
edges point from an earlier number to a
later
number so what that means is for an edge
UV we want to show that V finishes
before you
that's the reverse because what we're
taking is the reverse of the finishing
order okay so Edge UV want to make sure
V finishes first so that U will be
ordered
first well there are two
cases case
one is that you starts before V
case two is that V starts before
U at some point they start because we
visit the whole
graph this top level top Loop guarantees
that so consider what order we visit
them first at the
beginning and then we'll think about how
they finish well uh this case is kind of
something we've seen before
we visit you we have not yet visited V
but V is reachable from you so maybe via
this Edge or maybe via some other path
we'll eventually visit V in the
recursion for you so before you finishes
we will visit
V visit V before you
finishes that sentence is just like this
sentence so same kind of argument I
won't go into detail because we already
did that several
times so that means we'll visit V we
will completely visit V we will finish V
before we finish U and that's what we
wanted to prove so in that that case is
good the other case is that V starts
before
U here you might get slightly
worried so we have an edge UV still same
direction but now we start at V you has
not yet been
visited well now we worry that there's
uh that we visit you if we visit you
we're going to finish you before we
finish V but we want it to be the other
way around why can't that
happen because there's a back Edge
somewhere here in particular the graph
would have to be cyclic this is a cycle
so this can't
happen
contradiction uh so V will finish
before we visit you at
all so V will still finish first because
we don't even touch you because there's
no
Cycles so that's actually the proof the
topological sort gives you a valid job
schedule and it's kind of there there
are even more things you can do with DFS
uh we'll see some in recitation there's
more in the textbook but simple
algorithm could do a lot of nifty things
with it very fast linear time